# WHERE TOGO | Symptoms
#### Video Demo:  <https://youtu.be/M6WPetSrQYM>
#### Description:
It's a website designed for people like you and me to help the user get point to the right direction for their symptoms. it's basically WebMD meets Google Maps. The idea came to fruition when I was working in the ER and it was 3am and we're full to the brom and patients in the waiting room have been waiting for 8-10 hours just to see an ER doctor when they could've been seen by an urgent care of primary care doctor. The website starts with the homepage where you can click at a part of your body that's giving you an issue and it will direct you to a page that will give you information on what type of facility you have to go to, to seek proper care.

For the Head section of the website, when clicked. it will direct you to different symptoms of possible Head issues or concerns it will give you information in what symptoms you're experiencing. If you're experiencing this headache within 3 hours or less, the worst headache of you life with blurry vision and weakness, it will prompt you to go to the ER. on the other hand if you're experiencing this symptoms more than two days are or so with not as severe of a symptoms you still need to be seen by a doctor but on an urgent care set-up or primary care. if it's a head trauma you need to be evaluated at an ER setting as they have more proper equipment to evaluate you as you need higher level of care. I also tackle the symptoms Dizziness, if the user is experiencing it within 5 hours or less, blurry vision, loss of coordination and consciousness definitely go to the ER but if it's not as severe just plain dizziness and with no relief by using over the counter medication definitely need to be evaluated at an urgent care or primary care type of setting.

Next is Ears, I tackled on Ear Pain or Ear Trauma for this section, Ear pain with dizziness and balance problems,headache, pus or bleeding from the ear, Tinnitus (buzzing or ringing in the ear) or obvious deformity of the ear due to an injury definitely needed to be evaluated in the ER setting while the other symptoms just earache and loss of hearing as it might be something of a impacted earwax or your typical ear infection. I'm thinking of developing this more as I consult with my colleagues as i feel like it should be expanded some more.

Eye pain and Eye Injuries, for this part I strayed away from my usual "ER vs Urgent Care vs PCP" choices as here in Washington we actually do have Opthalmology clinic with ala-Urgent Care settings. for eye pain, eye redness, irritation caused by contact lenses, eye discharge, Uncomplicated eye injury, welder's burn, swelling or puffiness and styes definitely not an ER type of visit but with the right place to go you can receive top quality care. But for unusually severe eye pain, especially if it's accompanied by a headache, fever or sensitivity to light, sudden change in vision, eye pain with nausea or vomiting, foreign object or chemical in your eye, halos around lights, trouble moving your eye or an inability to keep it open, blood or pus coming from your eyes you need higher level type of care where you need to be evaluated in the ER.

Nose Pain and Nose Trauma, for unusually severw nose pain and Nose deformity due to injury, difficulty in breathing that's definitely an ER type of visit and for nasal congestion, runny nose due to allergies and your typical sinus infection that can be taken care of in an Urgent Care set-up and Primary Care set-up. you may have noticed that I have very limited option on my section for the nose as I'm trying to delve deeper more into this, I'm still waiting for a reply from an ENT doctor if I can interview him for Nose conditions and proper setting of care as they specialize on this area.

And for the Upper Limb section, instead of separating it with hands, arms and shoulders i just decided to make it as one section to reduce redundancy. That being said if the arms,shoulder or back pain that comes on suddenly, is unusually severe, or is accompanied by pressure, fullness or squeezing in your chest (this may signal a heart attack) definitely need to go to the ER right away or call 911! While  for severe pain and swelling in arms, trouble moving the arms normally or turning arm from palm up to palm down and vice versa should still need doctor evaluation but in an urgent care setting or primary care doctor.  For Upper Limb Injury
If there’s obvious deformity or protruding bone in your arm or wrist, especially if there’s heavy bleeding should go to the ER as they’re more equipped in taking care of stabilizing the injury than the in a urgent care. While for sudden injury to your arm, particularly if you hear a snap or cracking sound. The patient can go to an urgent care or primary care.

For Chest Pain if this is the worst pain of their life and radiates to the left jaw and left shoulder that accompanies with chest pressure with shortness of breath and dizziness definitely should be calling 911 or go to the nearest ER to rule out heart attacks but if the user have known history of GERD or Acid Reflux then Primary care or urgent care is a perfect place to go. For Chest Trauma, sudden feeling of shortness of breath and obvious deformity of the chest should get evaluated in the ER or call 911 right away. Chest trauma of more than 3 days from the date of injury with no breathing complications but with some bruising and pain at the site of trauma can  also get evaluated in an urgent care or primary care.

For the Abdominal section, if it's the worst pain of your life of your life with fever, dizziness, unexpected bleeding, or uncontrollable vomiting and if the user is pregnant, or could you be pregnant? You should always get evaluated right away in the ER, usually ERs have specialist on-site that can evaluate the patient right away just so the patient can have the proper care the patient needs. As you might have noticed that for the abdominal pain section doesn’t have an Urgent Care or Primary care section as the abdomen is just like a black-hole as there’s soo many organs there and it can be anything. higher level of care is necessary as the patient might need imaging and stat labs. For Constipation or Diarrhea if symptoms don't resolve with over-the-counter medications and the patient is experiencing fever and vomiting should also get an ER evaluation and Urgent Care or Primary Care if it's just plain Diarrhea and Constipation with some abdominal pain.

Back Pain and Back Injury if back pain with fever, numbness, weakness, bladder or bowel incontinence (loss of control) or any recent injury or trauma, especially in the elderly should get directed to the ER and if the injury is bad and need assistance should be calling 911 and if a recent increase in back pain that does not subside with over-the-counter medication, pain associated with nausea and/or vomiting, pain that becomes severe with specific movements, such as while coughing, bending forward or backward, or during twisting movements, recent onset of back stiffness should seek care at an urgent care or primary care setting.

For the Groin section I separated it with male and female section for an easier read. For male groin pain if in severe pain (and swelling) in the testicles that happened very quickly, groin pain plus fever or blood in the urine, a painful groin swelling plus nausea and vomiting should seek care at the emergency room. If the pain doesn't improve in a few days, have pain in the testicles that lasts for longer than a few days, there's a lump or swelling in a testicle definitely need to go to an urgent care or primary care provider and might get referred to a urologist. For female groin pain if excessive vaginal bleeding with palpitation, if patient is pregnant and is also experiencing some heavy vaginal bleeding just go to the ER right away. If pain during sex, vaginal itching and discharge schedule an appointment with your primary care doctor or go to an urgent care . I emphasized this part here “NOTE: PLEASE DON'T GO TO THE EMERGENCY ROOM FOR A ROUTINE STD TESTING.” because if the ER is full, the patient might end up waiting for a long period of time versus just going to an urgent care and primary care and can be seen in a much shorter period of waiting.

Leg Pain and Leg Injury if the pain that comes along with swelling, redness or warmth in the calf, leg pain that is accompanied by a fever, pain so severe it is difficult to walk or put weight on the leg, leg with serious burns, injury/wound with an exposed bone or tendon, injury with a sound of popping or grinding should get an ER evaluation, also if leg pain or leg injury that starts to disrupt your daily activities but is not enough to warrant emergency care. If you believe your leg injury, infection, or illness is something that may endanger your life or may become permanent go to the ER right away.

There you have it! A quick rundown of my website. I want to develop this more as I really love the idea of the website as it can be really useful. Thank you again CS50 for this opportunity.